OIDC: Add basic support for rich authorization requests (#52353)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-oidc-code-flow-authentication.adoc

quarkus.oidc.authentication.par.path=/as/par
----

=== Rich Authorization Requests

link:https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9396[OAuth 2.0 Rich Authorization Requests] (RAR) enable clients to specify fine-grained authorization requirements in the authorization request.
Instead of relying solely on traditional OAuth 2.0 scopes, RAR allows applications to request specific permissions using the `authorization_details` parameter.

> You can configure authorization details using the `quarkus.oidc.authentication.rar.*` configuration properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure authorization details using the properties in the  `quarkus.oidc.authentication.rar` configuration namespace:
```

An attempt to avoid `.*`

[source, properties]
----
quarkus.oidc.authentication.rar.string-type.type=openid_credential  <1>
quarkus.oidc.authentication.rar.string-type.credential_configuration_id=vc-scope-mapping
quarkus.oidc.authentication.rar.array-type.locations=${quarkus.oidc.auth-server-url}
----
<1> The `type` field is required. Validation will fail on startup if it is not set.

> With this configuration, Quarkus adds the following `authorization_details` parameter to the authorization request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this configuration, the following JSON is created:
```

[source, json]
----
[
    {
        "type": "openid_credential",
        "credential_configuration_id": "vc-scope-mapping",
        "locations": [ "http://localhost:34187/realms/quarkus" ]
    }
]
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Next, this JSON is URL-encoded and added as an `authorization_details` query parameter to the authorization code flow redirect URL.
```
